[MUSIC]
Welcome to Problem solving with Excel.
The second course in the data analysis and
presentation skills:
The PwC approach specialization.
If you were with us for
the first course, you may remember me.
I'm Alex Mannella, and I'm going
to get you started in the course,
introduce you to one of my colleagues,
and talk about how this course will run.
I'll then be back at the end of
the course to wrap things up.
In this course,
we're going to explore Excel as a tool for
solving business problems.
In order to do that,
we're going to start with teaching you
basic functions in Excel,
then build on that to advance your skills.
Along the way, you'll have a chance
to practice functions you learn and
to do some exercises that will give
you a chance to bring it all together.
Finally, we'll wrap up the course with a
final project that will allow you to apply
lessons from this course to build
your own Excel analysis tool.
There's something I'd
like you to keep in mind.
In this specialization, we're using Excel
to teach you how to think about analysis
and to solve problems.
We're also using it because it's a tool
that's widely available to most of you.
There are many tools that we
use with our clients everyday.
Tools that will serve a wide
variety of functions.
It's always important to choose the tool
that fits the needs of the client and
of the analysis you'll be conducting.
In some cases, it maybe Excel,
in others maybe Python,
while on others it maybe R or SaaS.
Regardless of the tool, the key question
is, what problem are we trying to solve
with what data and how do we best get to
the most accurate and specific answer?
Having strong Excel skills
will serve as a foundation for
other tools you will learn and
use in the industry.
If you took the first course,
Data Driven Decision Making,
you will notice that this course is
structured a little differently.
We're going to start every week with
an overview by my colleague, James Larmer.
James will talk to you about
the topics for the upcoming week and
give you some business context to consider
as you move into the lessons for the week.
Other PwC professionals are going to
teach you a variety of Excel functions
through recorded demonstrations.
In most cases, you'll also get a chance to
practice the function you just learned.
Periodically, we will have
scenario-based exercises
that will combine several of
the topics you have learned.
This will give you a chance
to try out your new skills
with your own Excel workbook.
At the end of the course, there'll be a
final project that will give you a chance
to combine everything you've
learned into one exercise and
create your own Excel document to use for
analysis and problem solving.
Here's how the course breaks down-
In week 1, we're going to start off with
some basic navigation and functions and
make sure everyone has the same
level of knowledge to build upon.
In week 2, we'll focus on formulas and
on data cleansing.
In week 3, we build on previous weeks
by exploring logic statements and
learning how to build and
use pivot tables.
Finally, in week 4, you'll take a more
advanced look at some formulas and
then pull it all together
in your final project.
Having a solid understanding
of Excel has been a key
component in my analytics career.
Whether it has been validating data,
cleansing data, building mathematical or
statistical models or more advanced
dashboards- Excel has been a powerful tool
that has helped me better solve my
clients' most difficult problems,
communicate results more effectively,
and help my clients visualize the impact
of the solutions we've helped them
develop.
We're sure you'll find this
course an insightful introduction
to problem solving with Excel.
We hope it will encourage you to
continue on with data analysis and
presentation skills.
The PwC approach, where you have
an opportunity to further develop and
apply data and
analytic skills to create visualizations
and make effective presentations.
At the end of this course,
I will be back to give you a recap and
to share my perspective.
Thanks for joining us.
[MUSIC]